I am Lukashenko Marianna Anatolievna,
I am the prorector of the Moscow Financial and Industrial Academy for Continuous Education,
Doctor of Economics, Professor.
In addition, I am an expert consultant of the company Organization of Time,
leading business training in such companies as Ingustrach, SubMiller and many others.
And now I would like to get acquainted with you.
Please tell me, you are certainly successful managers or specialists,
who have enough time to decide on everything.
You have time not only to work, but also to live.
You leave work on time, you read a lot of interesting books,
you go to theaters, admire the nature, communicate with your family, with our younger brothers.
Yes, that's right?
You know, then you probably can not watch anything else.
But I believe that in 95 cases out of 100, this is not quite so.
And the topic of our conversation is time management, the organization of our time.
So, pay attention to the slide.
We will talk about the most important things in the field of organization of our time.
About timing, how to measure what our time consists of, what we spend it on, what distracts us,
what prevents us from being more effective.
We will talk to you about planning tasks.
This is a very powerful story related to the organization of our time.
And finally, we will talk to you about how to rest properly during the working day,
so as not to overload and not to get tired completely.
We will talk to you about how to motivate yourself to perform complex, unpleasant, long, voluminous tasks.
So, we will talk to you about the most key stories in the field of organization of time.
Of course, this is not all we need to know.
But we will also consider the literature from which we can draw significantly more materials and information in the field of organization of time.
So, have a good trip!
Let's define the concept of time management with you.
Please look at the slide definition of time management.
This is a technology that allows us to use the inexhaustible time of our life in accordance with our personal goals, values and priorities.
Why didn't I pay attention to business goals?
Because business goals are, of course, subordinate to many of our personal goals.
Work is a very important component of our life, and no one disputes that.
Another thing is that we need to work to maximize our performance, to make us interested, to make us happy,
so that we leave work full of energy and strength in order to still have time for everything else,
which is of interest and importance to us, in addition to work.
So, time management is associated with something Western, which came to us with Perestroika, but this is definitely not so.
In the former Soviet Union there was a luxurious school of organization of time.
And there are key figures of world fame in the field of organization of time.
First of all, they are Alexei Kapitonovich Gastev and Platon Mikhailovich Kerzhentsev.
The development of the domestic school of organization of time dates back to the 1920s.
So, the 1920s. The Central Institute of Labor in the former Soviet Union.
Its director, Alexei Gastev, a man who was in correspondence with Ford and Taylor,
a man who introduced the methodology of a narrow base into scientific circulation for the first time.
What does it mean?
It means that the efficiency of a company, the efficiency of production in general, depends on the efficiency of each of us at our workplace.
Imagine, the 1920s, a time when one plus one is zero, there are no irreplaceable.
The idea is widely destroyed by the modernists.
However, as we know, this is a key message, a key paradigm of modern management.
Combine the interests of business and the interests of everyone, and a person will pull the whole company forward to achieve his goals.
The year 1926. Another meeting of the Soviets is taking place.
Several thousand people are sitting in a huge hall.
An American journalist is sitting next to Platon Mikhailovich Kerzhentsev.
The meeting is scheduled for 11, but it does not start at 12 or 1.
And the journalist turns to Kerzhentsev and asks,
How many people are there in the hall?
Three and a half thousand. Who are they?
Among them are workers of different specialties, engineering and technical workers, various specialists.
Kerzhentsev sees how the American journalist starts to read something in a notebook.
Then he says, but let me, during this time it was possible to build one or two airplanes.
And Kerzhentsev writes in an article, Time to Build Airplanes.
It is time to stop measuring time in some abstract quantities and being late in abstract quantities.
And it is necessary to measure in the same product that could be produced during this time.
The article receives a colossal public response in the country called Liga Vremya.
Its department is created at almost every enterprise, in every company, in every organization.
People, without the participation of the state, begin to develop some time-saving technologies.
It becomes so fashionable, it is so fascinating that even Ilf and Petrov cannot pass by it in the famous Golden Velvet.
When Antelope Gnus makes a car run on the off-road and wilderness,
in one village she is met by a group of comrades with a banner.
Hello Liga Vremya and its leader, comrade Kerzhentsev.
So Ilf and Petrov note that this idea becomes a key idea of the modern world.
Sorry, when it is appropriate and when it is not.
But the new economic policy, which coincided with the development of Liga Vremya,
unfortunately, ceases and together with it the work of Liga Vremya ends.
And the next stage of the formation of the National School of Organization of Time is only in the 70s,
when the book by Daniil Granin is published, it is called,
A Strange Life, by biologist Lyubishev.
This is a man who set the goal of his life to create a table of biological elements, like the table of Mendeleev.
And when he began to calculate how much time he would need for this, it turned out to be 150 years of human life.
Realizing the senselessness of what is happening, he begins to study the National School of Organization of Time very carefully.
He begins to chronometer the costs of his own time.
He begins to look at how much time it takes to solve a particular task, a particular job, a particular activity.
And a paradox arises. He manages to do it 100 times more.
But in the meantime, he begins to live a full life. He reads a lot. He devotes time to his family, nature, his development.
It would seem that he lives a full life, and in the meantime, he manages to do 100 times more than before.
And this book falls into the hands of a young student of the Mathematical Faculty of the St. Petersburg State University, Gleb Arkhangelsky.
And he realizes that it completely coincides with his world perception.
He begins to study the problem of time organization. He begins to look at what was developed in the former Soviet Union.
He begins to study everything that was developed in the West on this topic and what works in the chaotic modern Russian business environment.
Being a professional mathematician, he creates time management models and, based on these models, designs techniques and technologies of modern time management.
In 2000, under his leadership, the first time management community was created in Russia.
Its address is presented in your workbooks. This is the 3W Improvement.ru. There are the latest, most modern, most relevant materials and developments of the members of the time management community.
These are people who are interested in the problem of time organization. These are HR, managers who are fed up with the lack of time and come up with the most suitable techniques and technologies for them.
We will consider the technologies of time organization, which were developed in the company of the time organization under the leadership of Gleb Arkhangelsky.
Now, please open your workbooks on the second page and let's try to answer the question, please tell me how much time do we have? What is the time resource that we have in the hours?
Of course, we don't guess anything, we don't tempt fate, of course, the one who has been given the time will have the same amount of time.
But still, what are the average numbers? I see someone is pulling the calculator, and someone is guessing at a discount, maybe it's 10,000 hours, maybe it's a million hours, maybe several million. Let's try to figure it out.
So, the table in our workbook. So, what is our capital of time? Fill in the table. My age, please indicate your age in the table. The second line is the assessment of the time of completion. What is it? How old would you like to live?
Please write realistic numbers to get a very realistic resource. You can write average numbers, you can write a little higher, but in any case, it is desirable that these are quite realistic data.
The next line is my capital of time in years. What you got in the second line, we subtract what we got in the first line. The next line is my capital of time in days. What we got in the third line, we multiply by 365 days.
And now let's look at the most important time consumption in our future life. The number of hours needed for a day's sleep. So, depending on how much time you spend on sleep per day, please indicate this figure in the table.
This will be an average number. Perhaps it will be 6 hours, perhaps 8 hours. The next line is the number of active hours per day. 24 hours minus what you got in the fifth line.
And finally, the last line is my capital of time in hours. What you got in the fourth line, we multiply by what you got in the sixth line. And now compare this with the number you called at the very beginning, when we just tried to find out for a discount, without calculations, our time resource.
So, 200-400 thousand hours on average. What is it?
As we can see, there are no capitalists among us. We all own a very, very small capital of time. And we are all equal to time. This is the first and very important conclusion from what we have just done.
The second, no less important conclusion. We do not feel our time. If I asked you now, how much money do you have? Well, maybe you wouldn't say it out loud. But you've determined enough about yourself.
However, when we say how much time we have, there is no answer.
However, let's compare these two concepts. If we lost 1000 rubles, 10,000, 20,000 rubles, it's disgusting. Agree, it's extremely unpleasant, but it's doable. We'll make some more money.
When we lost 10-20 hours of time, we will never, by any means, remember these hours.
Again, if they try to steal 100 rubles from us, we react nervously to it. And when every day we are inhumanly robbed of our time by hours, we react very, very philosophically. Well, what to do? Well, how to deal with it? And you can't do anything about it.
So, let's look at another picture in our workbook, which is presented here below. This is a time pie. And let's try to make this time pie in accordance with our time resource, which we still have ahead.
So, on the circle, put a dot anywhere. Starting from this point, please calculate the number of sectors equal to your age. The fact is that in this circle, 70 sectors is the average life span of a person.
So, calculate the number of sectors equal to your age and make a dot. This is the time you have already lived.
Now let's look at what we still have ahead. So, if we spend about 8 hours a day on sleep, then boldly select a third of the remaining time. Isn't it 24 hours a day and 8 is a third of our daily time?
So, we spend a third of our future life on sleep. And now let's see how much time we will spend on some aimless expectations, during which you can't read or listen to music.
You can only wait for something sad and gloomy. In general, probably three years of our future life will go away safely. Perhaps, God forbid, we will get sick for a while.
So, in general, we will spend some more time on sleep. Please look at how much very, very small piece of pie remains for a couple of cups of tea.
And our task is to stretch this pie, make it as delicious, as nutritious, as useful, as necessary for us. And this is what we will do now.
So, our first story is a chronometer. Any project, as we know, starts with research. So, before we try to change something in the organization of our time, we need to understand what this time is made of and what prevents us from being more effective.
And this is what a chronometer is for. Please look at the slide. It shows a photo of the working day using the Kerzhentsy chronograph. This is the same Platon Mikhailovich Kerzhentsy, the creator of the League of Time.
The basis of the chronograph is a graph of the Gantt, which shows our tasks that we do during the day. This is in terms of lines, and in terms of columns, a time grid is presented.
The time grid depends on what we want to take into account. If we want to take into account the costs of our working time, then we start from the beginning of our working day and end, respectively, the time of the end of our working day.
If we want to take into account the costs of our working time, then we start from the beginning of our working day and end, respectively, the time of the end of our working day.
What is it? In column P, we note the tasks that are the priority for us and for the company as a whole. In column D, we note the tasks that we performed ourselves, although we could not delegate them.
Of course, the chronograph is conducted in real time. For example, you held a meeting and recorded that you held it from 11 to 12.50.
You held some phone conversations and noted that these phone conversations lasted from 12.50 to 13.00.
This is how you record all the work that you had during the working day.
First, in the order of the experiment, at least during one working day, you should record all the work that you have done. Ideally, the time should be conducted at least during the week.
But in order to try this technique, right here and now, you could fill in the chronograph in your workbook with your current day or your yesterday.
Let's see what we get. We recorded all the work that we did and we tied them to a certain time during which these works were performed.
In column P, we note the tasks that are the priority for us and for the company. In column D, we note the tasks that we could delegate, but we decided to do them ourselves.
What to do with these tasks? Below, in your workbook, you have a table with an express analysis of the data obtained. First of all, we need to calculate the percentage of time spent on long-term priority tasks.
This percentage of time is designated in scientific literature as 70-80% of our working day.
But in reality, unfortunately, this is not the case. Even if you have spent 50% on priority tasks, even if 40%, it is still a good result.
Next, the second line. The percentage of time for tasks that you could delegate. According to time management rules, this figure should not exceed 10%.
If more than 10% of your tasks are tasks that you decide on your own, even if you could delegate them, then there are problems. Problems with organizing business processes, problems with organizing your personal management, and so on.
These are the indicators that need to be corrected.
And finally, the percentage of time not taken into account. What is it about? What do you think can prevent us from doing time management?
I'm sure many of you say, we have no time to do time management, we are already insanely busy. I understand you very well. Several years ago, I said the same thing.
We try to do time management, even if we try from the bottom of our hearts. But unfortunately, we are busy and we really forget about it.
What to do? Of course, immediately throw the time and resume it, as we often do with the charge from the next Monday or from the next month, or better from the next year.
So, since the temptation is great, really immediately stop doing time management, then we provide a separate line, forgot and God with him. As I remembered, I will fix the moment that I remembered and continue to do time management.
And do not tempt yourself, do not stop time management. Let's pay attention to the steps of time management. Please see, they are presented to you on the slide.
So, the first. For several days, we record all the work done for 10-15 minutes. Perhaps you will say, but I need to record all the work from 5 minutes. Please record, but do not get too involved.
The fact is that time management also requires time. If we record our tasks from 15 minutes, in fact, it takes a little time. Just a day, 15-20 minutes maximum.
However, if we start to scrupulously record 3-5-minute tasks, it takes 45 minutes. This is the first. The second. Will not we get caught in an avalanche of information?
After all, imagine a list of 3-minute tasks can be very, very voluminous. With him, you need to do something, we should not do time management for the sake of time management itself. As a result, we must take some steps to optimize our time, make ourselves more effective.
So, what does it all lead to? The second. We outline 2-3 key indicators. What are these indicators? This is what we would like to change.
For example, we may not be satisfied with the fact that every day we are delayed at work for 2 hours. Or maybe we are determinedly not satisfied that we spend half an hour a day with our little son. Or maybe we are not satisfied that we do not devote time to fitness, or sports, or walking, or reading, whatever.
So, we start working with indicators that are needed from our point of view in the adjustment. For this we need to first find out their actual values.
And finally, we track these indicators in the dynamics. And what is most curious and most entertaining, perhaps, these indicators themselves decisively without our participation change for the better.
So, as soon as we start tracking some indicators in the dynamics, they themselves begin to improve, that is, change in the right direction.
So, what are the examples of indicators? The next slide. If my goal is to leave work on time, then the indicator is the duration of the delay after work.
If my goal is to devote more time to priority projects, then the indicator is the amount of time a day devoted to a priority project, as well as the percentage of such time from the total working time.
If my goal is to lessen the strain on work, in the normal sense of the word, that is, to do more work, but with less energy consumption, then the indicator is the amount of time a day spent in a resourceful, highly energetic working state.
So, what are the rules of timing? Pay attention to the next slide.
During the day, we only take a picture of the working day. We do not try to analyze the costs of our time during the working day.
Any analysis we take to the evening part and start in a calm environment, when we have already finished working, we start to look at what our working day consisted of.
This is the first key principle of timing.
The second key principle is to make this process pleasant and tasty for yourself.
If you like paper media, buy a bright, beautiful, leather notebook that you like, a nice color, a nice notebook that you would like to play with, a notebook that would be in front of you, a notebook that would attract your attention, a notebook that would be of interest to others.
If you like some beautiful blanks in Excel, make yourself a luxurious schedule in which everything will be automatically summed up, make it pleasant, interesting.
Of course, you can use reminders to not forget about the timing. You can put a sound reminder on your mobile phone so that you do not forget the timing.
Rule number three. Your task is not to get an objective picture. What is it?
If you spend time in vain or not quite effectively, you start to make sharp movements in this direction.
You know, people change the circle of communication. People refuse to be friends, not friends, but friends who like to talk about nothing for a long time.
In fact, this is not entirely harmless and it is not worth making revolutions in your life, which we pay attention to in the next item.
In the same way, you do not need to get up at 6 o'clock and leave the room proudly at work.
Of course, you don't need to. Our work includes force majeure, tasks that need to be done urgently, you need to be late.
You don't need to tell yourself, I have to leave on time today, I have a schedule.
And for this, we will encourage ourselves for the timing, for its conduct, as it is indicated in the next item.
I have a schedule for a day. In the evening I will eat some delicious chocolate. I have been doing this for a week and it is wonderful.
It is very important that we have a very important thought on how we will spend the time that we have free as a result of timing.
From here flows a certain desire, a term that came from the theory of the regime of inventive tasks, STRISA.
The fact is that they never call things their own names in order to get away from the stereotype of thinking.
For example, if you need to invent a new shovel, then you are told that you need a thing that will perform the following functions.
So we need a certain desire in our time management, which is not enough time now, which is pleasant.
I want to read something, I want to see something, go somewhere, talk to someone, drink beer with friends, chat.
I want to chat so aimlessly. I want to and I reward myself for doing the timing so carefully for a whole week and tracking all the time spent on what was right, reasonable and perhaps not quite rational.
So the next slide is to write out the desire, but now there is not enough time and on which we will begin to allocate time that is released with us with the help of timing.
And in this regard, the question arises, how to be with timing now?
Well, we optimized some indicators, we began to leave work on time in most of our time and we began to devote more time to our family, our children, reading.
And what now? When do I stop with timing? Or do I have to do it all my life?
And everything is very simple, as you are comfortable, so you do.
There are people who have been doing timing all their lives and for them it is quite natural, how to take a shower, how to brush your teeth.
For others, everything is completely wrong and then we recommend holding a certain disciplinary week.
That is, for a week you are doing the timing, you have found the very costs of time that interfere with your efficiency, you have undertaken certain actions to minimize or eliminate these costs of time at all.
And that's it, you stopped. Somewhere in 2-3 months, when you feel that you again have a need to optimize your working time, you again do the timing and so on.
And let's summarize and determine the advantages of timing.
So, the important result of timing is that the indicators we need are optimized themselves.
An important result of timing is that we get an objective picture of time, including the long-term perspective.
We also acquire new important information about ourselves and our personal growth reserves.
In fact, there are very curious examples when we are told by large and serious managers, everything is fine with us, with the organization of time, we have enough time for everything.
But after spending literally a week of timing, they write to us and say that we have found unprecedented reserves of time.
If someone told me that I have 1.5-2 hours of free time during the day, I would never believe it.
Thus, we really get a lot of new information about ourselves.
In addition, it is an opportunity to track improvements in quantity and manage your time based on facts, not opinions.
And finally, the most important thing is to develop the feeling of time and the feeling of efficiency.
The result of timing is that in a few days we have a slightly tingling feeling of efficiency or inefficiency of the process.
For example, we talk on the phone and suddenly feel that this conversation is losing efficiency and becomes just a chat.
We feel like some negotiations are losing their efficiency.
This is the most important result of timing.
We also begin to feel how much time a particular task takes, and in management this is very important.
We naturally acquire new information about how much time our subordinates and colleagues will need to complete a particular task.
We return to our very important question, what can prevent us from keeping the timing?
Indeed, someone will say to me, and this is the most common answer,
but many people are, frankly, too lazy or just forget, just do not want to deal with it.
In this regard, I would like to draw your attention to the following slide.
In it, in fact, is presented a woodcutter who is desperately trying to split this churbak.
The fact is that there is a wonderful story about this.
Once the villagers were amazed that the next day in the forest the woodcutter's axe was handed out, and it sounded strictly in one place and nothing else was happening.
They went to find out what was going on and saw a completely exhausted woodcutter who was trying to cut the same unfortunate tree with a completely blunt axe.
After observing this process for some time, they said, what are you doing? Go sharpen the axe.
What do you think the woodcutter said? Of course, I have no time, I have to cut.
Therefore, very often we spare time for the most important, for the most investment, for what works for our efficiency, for our future, for our development, for our health.
We spend, we spare time for the optimization of certain processes and in this regard we are suppressing this woodcutter.
Why did we do all this? Why did we conduct a chronometrage?
I believe that I managed to convince you that this is really an important time-manager technique and it is worth trying.
But you need to understand why we are doing all this.
We do all this to identify time swallowers.
The definition of time swallower is on your next slide.
So, time swallower is any business, time spending that we want to reduce.
Let's pay attention to the fact that there is no unified list of time swallowers.
For example, if we were running around the city all day, if we were talking all day, then most of all in the world we want to fall on some chair and maybe at this moment a computer swallower will be the most necessary rest in which we need so much.
But at another time when we worked on the computer all day and we have a neck, back, head, eyes under load, and we decided to rest and we switched to another resource.
We went to a computer swallower.
Does our neck continue to be under load? Yes, of course.
And the back, and the eyes, and the head.
Well, it's a little easier in the head, but not so much.
In this case, it is really a time swallower because it only prevents us from working, resting, and coming to our resource state.
Let's see what can be a time swallower.
It can be an expectation.
Expectations while we are going somewhere, spending time on the road, when we are standing in traffic, when we are waiting for our flight to the airport.
A time swallower can be a phone conversation with a friend or a girlfriend, nothing.
It's not necessarily our friend, maybe it's a client, a VIP client.
We can't finish the conversation with him, but he says and says and says, and there is no end to it.
What to do with it is completely incomprehensible.
These are some processes that are simply not effectively organized.
And this is what we will work with you now.
So, please look at the slide.
You have a task there.
This is a task for a task that is presented in the workbook.
So let's look at our workbook.
So please open the workbook on page 5.
And look at the data of a certain manager.
What needs to be done?
First, analyze the photo of the day that the manager made.
Second, identify the time swallower.
Third, offer some improvements to the organization of his work.
And finally, count the time we have gained from these improvements.
And now, please, pause and complete this task.
So, the task is completed.
Let's see what we got.
Let's pay attention to the fact that our manager spends a lot of time on email.
Do you see how many times he looked at the email?
Seven times.
At the same time, once at night, once early in the morning, and five more times during the working day.
How effective are these time-saving data?
If your job is to constantly monitor email, of course.
Of course, this time-saving is effective.
But very often it is not quite so.
We recommend that you reduce your work with email to two times a day.
And you should press this work with email by the end of some working period.
For example, the first time you should work with email in an hour and a half before lunch.
And the second time you should look at email in the second half of the day, around 5 or 4 o'clock.
But, of course, this does not mean that you did not look at email in the morning.
You can look at it, look at some urgent tasks that you have to do at the very beginning of the working day.
And you can do it. What is it for?
In order to correct your current workday plan.
But do not enter the correspondence.
Postpone all this until you do the main, most important, key tasks for a fresh start.
And after that, proceed to the temporary correspondence.
So, the first is to work with email and its optimization.
The second is that our manager spends a lot of time on the preparation for the presentation.
And we highlight two components of it.
The first is that our manager prepares himself.
And the second is that some people constantly come to him.
And he deals with them and instructs them to the presentation.
What could we recommend to our manager?
Of course, to gather a meeting.
Of course, to gather all the people who will be involved in this presentation.
And, of course, to give the necessary instructions, discuss some issues.
After that, if necessary, organize the final instruction of the team.
But in no case do not deal with each separately.
The same with your preparation.
You do not need to break it.
You have allocated some time, sat down, prepared for the presentation.
And completed, switched to other types of activities.
What else is important?
There are tasks that could be delegated.
For example, call Irina on the preparation of the presentation.
To clarify the time of the presentation.
Of course, you should not spend 34 minutes to call someone yourself.
Even if we do not have the opportunity to delegate this task,
but we called, we did not reach and without spending this time,
we make the next call at least in 20-30 minutes, and so on.
And finally, please pay attention to the road to work.
It takes an hour and 40 minutes to get to work.
And it takes 49 minutes to get home.
Perhaps the fact is that in the morning he gets into a traffic jam.
And maybe it makes sense to recommend him to leave a little earlier.
And this time was spent on lunch, which he did not have.
Please note that our manager is completely busy.
He spends 18 minutes for breakfast, about the same for dinner.
He does not have lunch at all, sleeps 5 hours.
Note that our manager will not last so long.
So, techniques for fighting swallowing.
Attention to the slide.
Reducing the fine details of work.
We combine work in blocks.
We combine time for instructing our employees, our subordinates, for communicating with them.
We combine time for working with email.
We combine time for phone calls.
The next position is to normalize the time for the flow.
The fact is that during the day we have to perform a lot of tasks.
We allocate time for them.
We allocate time to prepare some reports, some reports.
As in our case, to prepare for the presentation.
We do not waste this time.
If we are distracted 4 times during 2 hours,
then our total time of work on this task will be not 3 hours,
but 2 hours plus 4 times for 15 minutes.
And much more.
But imagine a locomotive from point A to point B goes without stopping.
How much time will it take?
And when it stops at each half-stop, how much time in the end?
So is our priceless brain, our priceless head.
It is not necessary to distract it.
Let it concentrate on performing some task.
We normalize the time.
Next, we manage the workload.
We allocate time for lunch.
And we never save time for lunch.
We allocate time for rest.
We allocate time to have a full breakfast, dinner.
We allocate full time for sleep.
Otherwise, in a month or two, we will have a situation
in which we will not be able to work.
And finally, the use of time gaps.
What is it about?
We often have to wait for something, spend time on the road.
We try to make sure that this time does not go to waste.
We keep some book with us.
If the time we spend on the road allows,
let's say we drive a car and drive not by ourselves,
we can work on a computer, on a laptop.
If we are not allowed, we can just listen to music.
We can listen to audio books.
By the way, it is very fashionable now.
Everyone collects audio books, exchanges audio books, discusses them.
In addition, now very fashionable microphones.
We record our ideas when we do not have the opportunity
to record something on a paper carrier.
Something came to our mind, we write it on a recorder.
And after that, we transfer all this to paper or electronic view.
In fact, it is a very useful thing.
So, we are summing up the block of time and time absorbers.
Next slide.
We want to manage, we measure.
We get an objective picture and no revolutions,
in no case do not radically change your life.
And the third, when we track the indicators in the dynamics,
they improve themselves.
So, we have finished a very important block of time.
And now we are starting to an even more important plot.
Planning our time.
Our next plot is planning.
But very often we associate planning with something tough.
Nine hours of meetings, 10 hours of negotiations,
11 hours of some kind of meeting.
We will approach the problem of planning our time a little differently.
From the point of view of how to perform the task in the optimal time for it.
And first of all, we will talk about the role of His Majesty the Case.
Tell me, please, were there any situations in your life,
completely random,
thanks to which some changes occurred in your work,
in your personal life, in your development?
Something happened, for sure.
Of course.
The role of the case in the life of each of us is colossal.
And when we conduct trainings in companies,
listeners sometimes tell absolutely amazing situations.
For example, a person has always dreamed of being a pediatrician.
And now, the last holidays before the choice of specialization.
A person is already studying at a medical institute.
And now he returns to the institute after the holidays, and, oh, horror, he is late for the train.
He changes the ticket, finds himself in another train, and finds himself in a compartment with a famous forensic medical expert.
They talked all the way.
A person comes to Moscow and writes a statement for a forensic medical examination.
He is told, how is it possible? You are cutting off your way to medical practice.
You can no longer be a doctor.
And the person says, no, no, this is exactly the case of my life.
And it really turns out to be the case of his life.
We see a successful, well-off person, a bright personality.
It turns out that this is an amazing community of these people, as it really happens.
The role of the case is really impossible to overestimate in our life.
It is great, it is colossal.
Meanwhile, please look at the slide.
We are all trying to plan everything hard.
And if we, pay attention to the next slide,
turn to the ancient Greeks,
we will see two concepts of time.
Not only the concept of chronos, which we are used to.
This is linear, measurable, astronomical time.
That's it.
At 5 p.m. presentation, at 6 p.m. some solemn part,
at 7 p.m. leaving work, and so on.
It was very hard.
But they had a different concept of time.
The concept of chiros.
This is not a linear time or favorable moment to perform a particular task.
What chiros are seen in our everyday life, everyday work?
It turns out that there are quite classic chiros,
or classic contexts that we miss in our work.
What is it?
These are contexts tied to some places.
For example, when I'm in a bank, don't forget the first, second, third.
When I'm on a business trip, don't forget the first, second, third.
What can I say?
Each of us goes to a store,
and very often we meet with such a situation.
A phone call.
You will pass by the store, don't forget to buy bread.
This is the very context planning.
There are contexts tied to people, or groups of people.
When I meet with Ivan Ivanovich, don't forget the first, second, third.
When I'm at a meeting, don't forget to say about the first, second, third.
Finally, there are contexts like circumstances.
For example, these are internal circumstances.
This is my resource state.
This is my resource state when I feel exhausted.
At this moment I can just sit and say to myself,
how tired I am.
And I can plan some things that work to restore my balance and my own rest.
And finally, these are external circumstances.
When finally some law will come out, some situation.
When such and such order will come, such and such instruction, and so on.
So let's summarize the typical Kairos.
Attention to the next slide.
Kairos is a place in a bank, in a car service, in a branch, on a business trip, somewhere else.
Kairos is a person or a group of people.
When a client calls, don't forget to talk to him about this, that, and that.
You may say, wait a minute, you can call him yourself.
Aha, maybe this is a question of a very serious policy.
Not to show interest to yourself, but to wait for the right moment,
when a person will contact you, and here, by the way, to tell him what we need.
Internal circumstances.
During the inspiration surge, for example, Alexander Pushkin had a Kairos,
which was called the Echidna mood.
As you know, he was often described with all sorts of nasty things.
He had a crystal vase, in which he cut out, put notes, and threw them into this crystal vase.
And when he had a Kairos, the Echidna mood, he took out some Easter egg
and wrote a nasty, flimsy epigram on it.
It was beautiful.
And finally, external circumstances.
A famous Kairos.
When the boss is in a good mood.
Don't forget to solve these questions.
When, finally, some law comes, some position.
What is context planning and how to plan luck?
How to plan Kairos?
So, if the context or Kairos is a set of conditions favorable for performing any task.
All this is presented to you on the next slide.
Then context planning is a planning technique, which consists of
1. Identification of typical personal Kairos.
What Kairos do you have?
2. Establishing the appropriate lists of tasks associated with these Kairos.
3. Viewing these lists when approaching certain Kairos.
Let's see how context planning is carried out.
Attention to the next slide.
It presents context planning in a diary.
So, the first technique is separate sections on typical contexts.
You take your diary.
You select separate sections of this diary.
Client A, Client B, Client C, Project A, Project B, Project C.
And you write all the questions that relate to this client or this project.
Next.
The second technique is stickers for flexible tasks.
What is it?
You agreed to call someone at the end of the month.
In general, I must say that this is an extremely unsuccessful formulation.
Because the end of the month is a very conditional concept.
For one, the end of the month is 30th and 31st.
Another means that the 25th is already the end of the month.
Then it is always not very successful.
When we call, there is always a problem.
And I thought you would call.
And so on.
So, what can we do in this case?
We can write down on the 25th to call Ivan Ivanovich.
We can write it down.
The 25th has come. We call Ivan Ivanovich.
We find out that he is on a business trip.
We find out that he will come in three days.
What should we do?
First.
We try to remember that we need to call Ivan Ivanovich in three days.
Extremely unsuccessful.
It is exactly after the 30th that we will definitely forget about it.
The second option.
We rewrite this record to the 28th.
Better.
Although we spent a certain amount of time on this.
On the 28th, we call Ivan Ivanovich.
And we are told that he will not be there today.
He drove in there in the morning for five minutes and left today with the ends.
What should we do?
Rewrite to tomorrow?
And how long should we rewrite from one page to another?
Stickers in this regard.
A much more convenient tool.
We paste them on the corresponding page of the diary.
If this task has passed to another day.
It takes us a split second to paste this sticker.
In addition, the sticker has the ability to signal to us that we need to solve a particular task.
And finally, the third technique.
It is called a tab with contextual tasks.
In the former Soviet Union, maybe some of you have met such a tool called a perfocard.
It was very popular in computing centers, programmers, and developers.
This is a dense cardboard of a small format.
On it, as a rule, in addition to its main application, it was very convenient to write down, mark and store something.
So, this is a sheet of dense cardboard, thin, on which you write down a list of your tasks.
And this sheet is posted on one page of your diary to another.
For example, during lunch, you can meet with Ivanov and Petrov and talk to them about this and that.
You can write such a task on a perfocard and take it with you when you go to lunch.
So, naturally, you don't have to carry a diary with you, don't have to look at what tasks you have tied to lunchtime, and so on.
This is what concerns the tab with contextual tasks.
But these are personal contextual planning techniques.
Yes, you can, of course, use the context planning technique on Outlook.
In order to actually use this technique, you should only pull up the right edge of the screen in the calendar, and you will see another field.
It's called the task field.
And you can create the necessary categories on this task field that correspond to your context.
The category is people, the category is clients, the category is business, the category is business trip, and so on.
There is a need to implement this context planning for your team, for your department, department, company as a whole.
Context planning boards are very convenient for this.
Please look at the next slide.
These boards show completely real ways of context planning that work in various organizations.
The left slide shows what works in one large company in St. Petersburg.
The right one shows the Moscow educational organization.
So, please look at the left example of the context planning board.
The board shows the performers who perform tasks within specific projects, and the lines show the projects.
At the intersection, there are stickers with the tasks that are solved by the performers within the projects.
Please note that we have a full overview of the tasks that are solved within the projects.
Secondly, it is very convenient for us to adjust.
For example, Ivanov is preparing a presentation, and Petrov is preparing to participate in the exhibition.
Seeing all this, Petrov can easily arrange Ivanov's presentation as his resource for participating in the exhibition.
Please look at the example on the right.
So, the Moscow educational organization spends a lot of time communicating with various educational bodies.
The courier service has long been exhausted by the need to transport documents back and forth.
So, what have people come up with?
The context planning board is designed for the ministries, departments, and committees
that need to go to either deliver documents or discuss certain issues.
The announcement is made on March 12th, at the same time, that Ivanov should be in the 32nd office of the ministry.
People who pass by, stick their stickers,
and say, please, come in and take the documents for Petrov, who is in the next office.
Or, please, if you are in the ministry, come to office 32 and take the necessary documents or documents for me.
Thus, we use the opportunities that open up to us as a result of someone else's performance of their own tasks.
In fact, this is not uncommon in companies.
For example, one company is practicing the allocation of a car for the needs of employees,
and the schedule of this car is laid out in the outlook.
You can look at the route of this car, you can get into this route in order to hand over the documents or just go yourself.
If this route is not suitable for you, you can simply book a free time for your needs.
Or another company has a problem with transferring documents to the accounting office,
it takes a long time to move there, and so on.
They have a schedule, and people put their documents in a certain place that must be transferred to the accounting office.
A person for whom this task is extremely relevant and he needs to solve it as soon as possible,
takes the entire package of documents and brings it to the accounting office.
Thus, the opportunities and resources of someone else are used.
And now we will take our first step towards creating our personal context planning system.
To do this, please open the workbooks on page 7, and our task is now to define our old and new contexts.
So, the task is to identify our typical personal contexts,
we need to formulate tasks related to these contexts,
and finally, we need to determine ways of organizing context planning.
Let's look at the example presented.
Very often in our practice, I hope it's not only in my practice, but also in our practice,
there is a situation when we meet someone and say,
I wanted to discuss something with you, but now I forgot.
Okay, I'll call you back.
It happens, doesn't it?
It happened to me, especially when I met my boss.
He is an extremely busy person,
and when he called me to clarify some of his questions,
I solved these questions, and after that I would like to take this moment
and solve the questions that arose with me to my boss.
But unfortunately, at this very moment, all these questions were popping out of my head.
What did I come up with for this topic?
I created a folder on which I wrote,
Chef, any questions that arose with me to my boss,
I always recorded on paper, and this sheet of paper was safely put in this folder and forgot about it.
If I had any non-urgent documents requiring his signature,
I grouped these documents, wrote a kind of accompanying document,
and also put them in the folder.
So let's see what we got as a result.
The first line, the context, when will I be able to talk to the director.
The associated tasks.
I need to get a signature on the documents,
I need to agree on the information in the catalog,
and finally, I need to approve the conference program.
How is the context planning organized?
A checklist of questions in the folder.
Pay attention to what is indicated in the brackets with the solution options.
We practice not open questions to the management,
but we practice questions with ready-made solution options.
If you are the manager, then adjust your subordinates.
It works the same way, save your time and grow yourself.
And finally, a list of documents for signature and approval.
Now, at the moment when my manager has a question for me,
I, like Zhvonetsky, have a folder with all the questions,
and I rush to my manager.
Having found out all the questions that he has,
I ask him a question, and now you have a little time left.
Having received an affirmative answer, I open my priceless folder
and find out all the questions I have.
And now, please fill in the table that you have at the bottom.
So, the first line is what you have already taken into account
when planning your business.
Perhaps you already had a context, your client, your customer,
your special object,
and you grouped all the questions in relation to this object,
made a list of these questions,
and when meeting this object, you went straight to the list
and found out all the questions you had.
If this was the case, please write down how you took this into account
when planning, what the tasks were,
and how the context planning was organized.
Perhaps with the help of separate sections in the diary,
perhaps with the help of a separate folder on the computer,
perhaps with the help of some other section in Outlook,
perhaps with the help of stickers, and so on.
And then, please fill in the bottom line of the table.
This is the context that you did not take into account when planning,
but which you have already decided to take into account.
So, please write down this context,
write down the tasks and how you will organize the context planning.
Please pause now, fill in this table,
and be sure to come back to us. Thank you.
So, you filled in the table,
and now we are starting to learn a new technique,
the long-term planning technique.
Please look at the next slide.
How do we plan for a long period of time?
We make a plan for a month, a plan for a quarter,
a plan for six months, a plan for a year.
All of this is very strict.
We offer another technique,
the long-term planning technique,
which is based not on the rules of a strict list of tasks
but on a strict rule of moving tasks from one accumulator to another.
So, look, please.
We have three accumulators with you.
The accumulator for the day, where you have a unit,
the accumulator for the week, where you have a seven,
and the accumulator for the year, where you have 365.
So, once a week,
you look through the list of your annual tasks,
what you planned for the year.
And what you have matured to do next week,
you move to the list of tasks for the week.
Look at the convenience of this technique.
We do not forget about the tasks that we have planned even for the next six months.
Sometimes it happens that we have a very convenient moment right now
to solve a task that is not in our plan right now.
For example, we want to lobby a project,
and we have planned this task for the next six months.
And suddenly, right now, we have a very good moment.
We are holding a conference,
we have VIPs here, everyone is present.
We have the largest business representatives here,
officials are here,
and it is very convenient for us to arrange some kind of express negotiations here on the topic we need.
But we forgot about this task.
It is not in front of our eyes,
it is planned for some long period of time,
and we just do not use a very successful opportunity to solve this task right now.
In this case, we do not forget about anything,
because we monitor our annual tasks once a week.
In addition, we do not need intermediate information carriers.
Our plan for the month, our plan for the quarter, our plan for the half-year,
because all these tasks are concentrated in our annual information carrier.
Next, please look, once a day we monitor the task list for a week.
What we have matured to be performed the next day,
we move to the task list for the day.
Thus, again, we do not forget anything,
and at the same time we adapt quite flexibly to the circumstances that are created around us.
Thus, we manage the circumstances,
and we manage our own planning, planning and organization of our time in these proposed circumstances.
Let's look at the next slide.
This is a planning board that is implemented in a large company.
Please look, here are our plans for the day, plans for the week and plans for the month.
Please note, here is the planning for the month, the third line,
and the pillars of the performers who carry out these tasks.
And at the intersection, tasks that are recorded on stickers.
Unfortunately, this is not reflected on the slide,
but in fact, in this company, above each name,
an envelope is also attached, in which tasks are added,
that is, already used stickers.
And thus, having completed the task that we planned for the day,
we just remove this sticker and move it to the envelope,
and having looked through the list of our tasks for the week,
we take the one that is most relevant and most important for us to perform the next day,
and just in a matter of seconds we glue it to the board in this section of tasks for the day.
The same thing happens with the month.
Please note the very interesting result of the work.
After a month, all these envelopes are emptied,
and a meeting takes place where people sum up the tasks completed in a month.
The most interesting thing is that the person who has completed the most tasks receives a day off.